data/WangPage2016/info.md, before:

2022/8/30
Bryan Daniels

These data are a subset of those found in the file `nanostring data with VG protein data.xlsx` sent to me from Ying Wang and Rob Page in 2017.  In emails from May 26, 2022, both Ying and Rob agreed that I could use these data for ASU's CAS 523 course.

Because the data are not yet published publicly, the data file to be used in the course, titled `Wang_Page_nanostring_data_2016_Day_15.csv`, will be made available for download from the course's Canvas website.


Below are other details about the dataset.

Notes on data from Ying Wang (emailed 6.14.2017): 

Here is the data matrix with the data of VG protein concentrations in the hemolymph. Since we decided it was not needed to include all the time points previously, I don’t have the protein data on day 4.


Ying says of the normalized data (5.29.2017):

The company provide a program called 'nsolver' that does background extraction and normalization. The program uses the  geometric mean of reference genes for the normalization.
Our data was processed by the program and I reorganized in the right format and did further analysis.

Commit message:

add module 7 generative models exercise

data/WangPage2016/info.md, after:

2022/9/28
Bryan Daniels

The `Wang_Page_nanostring` data files contain a subset of the data found in the file `nanostring data with VG protein data.xlsx` sent to me from Ying Wang and Rob Page in 2017.  In emails from May 26, 2022, both Ying and Rob agreed that I could use these data for ASU's CAS 523 course.

Because these data are not yet published publicly, the data files to be used in the course, titled `Wang_Page_nanostring_data_2016_Day_1.csv` and `Wang_Page_nanostring_data_2016_Day_15.csv`, will be made available for download from the course's Canvas website.

The file `landau_fit_parameters.csv` contains model fit parameters that are used in the Module 7 exercise.

Below are other details about the dataset.

Notes on data from Ying Wang (emailed 6.14.2017): 

Here is the data matrix with the data of VG protein concentrations in the hemolymph. Since we decided it was not needed to include all the time points previously, I don’t have the protein data on day 4.


Ying says of the normalized data (5.29.2017):

The company provide a program called 'nsolver' that does background extraction and normalization. The program uses the  geometric mean of reference genes for the normalization.
Our data was processed by the program and I reorganized in the right format and did further analysis.
